LAB 1 ALL COMMANDS ::::::::::


ipconfig /ifconfigf
ping
getmac
hostname
systeminfo
nslookup
tracert /traceroute
netstat
pathping
arp



:::: EXPLAINATION::::::

1. ipconfig (Windows) / ifconfig (Linux/macOS)
Displays IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway for all network adapters.

ipconfig /all shows detailed network configuration.

Useful to check if a device has an IP or to troubleshoot connectivity issues.

ifconfig is older; newer systems use ip command instead.

2. ping
Tests connectivity between your device and a remote host (like a website or IP).

Sends ICMP Echo Requests and waits for a reply.

Helps check if the destination is reachable and how fast the response is.

Syntax: ping google.com or ping <IP>.

3. getmac
Displays the MAC (Media Access Control) address of your device’s network interfaces.

MAC is a unique identifier for network hardware.

Helps in identifying devices on a network or for filtering access.

Syntax: Just type getmac in Command Prompt.

4. hostname
Displays the name of the current computer.

Hostnames are used to identify computers in a network.

Useful in networking or when configuring remote access tools.

5. systeminfo
Shows detailed configuration info of your computer.

Includes OS version, manufacturer, BIOS version, RAM, network details, etc.

Good for diagnosing system-related network issues.

6. nslookup
Stands for "Name Server Lookup".

Resolves domain names (like google.com) to IP addresses using DNS.

Helps troubleshoot DNS issues or find IPs of domains.

Syntax: nslookup google.com.

7. tracert (Windows) / traceroute (Linux)
Shows the path packets take to reach a destination.

Lists all intermediate routers (hops) on the way.

Useful for finding where a connection is failing.

Syntax: tracert google.com.

8. netstat
Displays active TCP/UDP connections and listening ports.

Also shows network statistics and routing table.

Useful for security auditing or checking open connections.

Syntax: netstat -an or netstat -ab.

9. pathping
Combines ping and tracert together.

Analyzes network latency and packet loss across multiple hops.

More detailed and time-consuming than tracert.

Syntax: pathping google.com.

10. arp
Displays and modifies the ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) table.

ARP maps IP addresses to MAC addresses on a local network.

Syntax: arp -a shows current ARP entries.

Useful for resolving local network issues or detecting spoofing.




::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
